I was trying to figure out what I could do to show my appreciation to all the good people here who had helped me so much.
And some of you people can use fancy words, make speeches, and I decided the best way for me to show my appreciation was to use my right arm.
I then stopped and said, Randy, that's more eloquent than any of us could ever be.
I don't remember that, but that sure sounds good.
I'll take credit for it.
Do you remember, was that an easy night's sleep the night before?
Yes, it was.
I usually didn't have trouble sleeping the night before.
It's the night after coming down.
That was, you know, I'd been throwing well, and I was ready, and I did well at home, and I was looking forward to it.
It was not something I dreaded.
Did you do anything that Saturday night to celebrate?
I can't remember at all.
And you're married by then, so your wife is there, but was any other family here?
You know, I don't think so.
I think it was just...
Just my wife here.
All right, back to the campus and academics.
Did your grades ever show any difference in the semesters when you were competing?
Fall semester grades any different than spring?
No, I think they were kind of balanced out.
You know, you had to travel a little more in the spring, but also that gave me an opportunity, especially late in the spring when I was traveling by myself,
You know, it's harder to travel on the team bus when you're going to Laredo or somewhere like that, or Houston.
But when I'm traveling by myself to California on an airplane and back and spending hours in Lowell Love Field, then you can, I probably spent more time studying when I was competing.
Now, I didn't, when I got out there, I didn't spend a lot of time on it while I was sitting around in the room getting ready for the meet.
But traveling, I was able to, so I didn't really,
I would, if I had an option, and they didn't give him any options in those days, I would try to take a little lighter load in the spring if I could.
The real difficult time I had was the year I played basketball.
And you go all, most of the fall, and then, I mean, you finish basketball up, and they're wondering if I'm going to be at the track meet that weekend.
And that was, basketball was a lot harder on me at track, because they had basketball games on Tuesday nights.
Why did you decide to go out for basketball?
Well, I was kind of stale in track, and Shelby Metcalf came to me, and I liked him a lot, and he said, and I was a basketball player in high school, and I really wondered if I could play, and I was kind of stale from just competing all year round.
I was kind of stuck in that fall in the weights, and I wasn't,
I was kind of in a rut, and for some reason he came to me and said, you know, I'm not putting pressure on you, but I think we've got a chance to win the championship, but we really need some rebounding help inside.
We got Beasley who can score, but we need some, and this is a chance for us to win the championship, and if, you know, and he said, I'll do anything I can to make it as,
easy for you.
You know, you can lift weights a couple times a week.
I'll give you time off for that.
You know, we'll do whatever we can.
And he said, I'll tell you this, you know, I'll do whatever I can.
So I came to him back and said, you know, I think I'll try it.
I think it surprised him.
And he said, well, I'll do what I said.
He said, I'll tell you something else I'll do.
If this doesn't work out for any reason, we're going to say that
that you really need to get back to training.
The Olympics are coming up and it's hurting your track.
I appreciate that because it was kind of a gamble.
When I played in high school I weighed 215, I weighed 267 now.
And I remember the first day I show up, it's the first day of official practice and they're running the bleachers two times in G Raleigh, which are pretty steep bleachers.
And he said, you don't have to do this.
And I said, I need to start right now doing whatever everybody else does.
So, you know, I don't want any different deal.
And I regretted saying that because it about killed me.
I finished about 30 minutes after the rest of them.
I was big and strong, but I couldn't run those bleachers.
And just about killed me.
And I said, I may have made a big mistake.
I don't remember ever going over there, even though it never came up, to lift weights because I went from 267 to 235 quick because I never run so much in my life.
And he worked you out hard.
Basketball practices were challenging.
I got involved in it.
I started out fairly well and then I wasn't doing very well and I had blisters and a problem and actually sent me home a day or two early for Christmas to kind of recuperate and I really had a feeling I might come back and this might be the time we sat down and said I was a track man.
I came back, kind of rejuvenated and after that had a pretty good year and enjoyed playing.
Through the first half of the season, we had a three-game lead.
We had all of our tough games at home then, except for Texas, and we beat them in Austin.
We beat the SMU and Arkansas and Texas Tech at home.
In the last half, we had to go to those places, Arkansas, Texas Tech, and the SMU all beat us on the road in tough games.
And we actually lost the conference last game of the season in Arkansas.
We had won the Southwest Conference.
And then Texas beat us at home that year in a fluke.
They had a kid score 33 points that's averaging about six.
But it was a good experience.
I really enjoyed playing for Coach Metcalf and playing with those guys.
But by then I tore a cartilage in my knee that season.
I weighed 230 pounds.
And I never did get it back that year.
And I couldn't come back and play again because I had the Olympics coming up and
and remember I had a silver medal and my career would not be complete without a goal.
I didn't want two silvers.
Now don't I remember you're getting a key rebound or blocking a key shot in the SMU game here, right at the end of the game?
No, that was against Texas Tech, and it's a big game, and I stole a pass.
They were trying to pass it to a guy named Ruther who later became a coach.
I stepped up, got the pass, and then I won.
When it all settled, I'm in the open court with the basketball, which is something I never wanted to be.
One of the things you miss out by throwing shot puts and lifting weights is ball handling.
And I kicked and chased the ball all the way under the basket, finally got a hold of it, and I'm down there by myself, and they're all coming.
And I'm falling out of bounds, and I turned around, and a guy from Dumas, Texas, Dick Rector, is breaking, and I threw it to him, and he scored, and we won the game.
It could have easily ended up me sitting out of bounds down there by myself.
And I remember one story.
Shelby likes to tell it.
He makes up a lot of stories, but we're playing TCU.
TCU had a little guard from Pampa, Texas that was on the team with me that I used to blame costing us a state championship.
His name was Wayne Crease.
He was kind of a hot dog.
He was a good player.
We're beating TCU by about 15 points in G. Raleigh.
And Kreese comes down, and I've watched him play so many times.
I knew that he's going to take a jump shot.
And I'm under the basket.
He's out almost what would be a three-point line.
And I took off running toward him.
And about the time he shot, and I got the ball, but I also put him in about the third row of the bleachers.
And they called foul on me.
Coach Metcalf called me over to the side and said, you did that intentionally.
I said, no, I was trying to block you.
He said, don't tell me that.
You're getting even from high school, you know, and we're 15 points ahead and it looks bad.
You hurt him like that.
You know, if it's a close game, it doesn't matter.
But as close as he came to chewing me out the whole year, he had a technique of not chewing you out.
He'd just make his awful face.
And it could hurt you worse than any chewing out you'd ever get.
And I played hard for him because I had a lot of respect for him.
And you had a confidence with him when he got down late in the game.
And he called you over and he said, I want you to do this and you do this.
You knew exactly what to do and you knew if you do it, it was going to work out.
And you had that confidence with him late in the game.
And most coaches don't give you that.
During your undergraduate days, were you a member of any of the other campus organizations other than athletics?
I was in the Marketing Society because Herb Thompson was the sponsor, and I thought it might help me in his class, and also the hometown club.
Now, Pampa didn't have a hometown.
They had hometown clubs in those days.
They don't know.
Pampa didn't have one, but Amarillo, we went to that a couple times, but we didn't care much for it.
of Mamarella because they were big competitors.
And, but, you know, it was, when you work out three hours a day, you know, I think if I had to do over again I would have been involved a little more because I think those, there was tremendous benefit to those that participated in campus or even back in those days.
But today there's a lot of opportunity.
Now the hometown clubs quite often arrange rides home.
You had wheels from when?
What year?
Oh, probably our sophomore year.
We had a vehicle.
Either Donnie or I had one.
But it was always a deal where somebody's going near there.
I don't hardly ever remember us leaving just us two.
There was always a... Do you remember ever hitchhiking?
Did you ever hitchhike?
We hitchhiked some.
Did you have had any interesting experiences?
Right.
Ted Nelson, who's a great track man, coach at A&M now,
We would fly, we flew out to California.
And this is the weekend before final exams started on Monday.
And we'd fly back to Dallas and we got a four hour layover.
And I remember the tickets, $19 from Love Field to College Station and you could cash them in.
So he said, I know a guy that will pick us up and take us to the edge of Dallas
and we'll be home before that plane would, and we'll make it $19.
I said, I don't know.
Tell him, we got finals and everything.
He said, no, I guarantee it.
So that was about midday.
So we got a ride out there, and we got a ride to the, it would be the north side of Waco, and we can't get across Waco, so we walk.
I'm carrying my shot put.
All he has is his running shoes.
I got my shot put in my bag.
And we walk most of the way across Waco.
We get picked up by a country preacher that gets us finally to College Station about 11.30 that night.
Final start in the next morning.
I'm so mad Nelson, he won't get near me because he knows I'm going to kill him if I ever get my hands on him.
And the irony of it is we turned those tickets in, he got his $19 and I never got my $19.
And we talk about that hitchhiking trip today.
There was a couple others, but that's the one that I remember the most.
I wasn't big on hitchhiking.
During those days, did you ever hear of secret fraternities?
No.
You weren't aware of any.
Let's see, and this is the time you're here when women are admitted and black students are admitted.
Describe what it was like as far as you're aware for the first black students on campus.
Well, you know, Curtis Mills and some of those guys are the first ones, and we accepted them well.
They fit in well.
I don't remember any problem that way.
Now, they probably might, you know.
What about the women?
You know, there were a few women on campus and we had a great respect for them.
They were treated much better than they're treated today, I think.
See, we felt like they had destroyed the university while we were here.
And one of the bigger things than that, to me, was changing the name.
The name change took place, you know, went from a college to a university.
They changed the name.
made the Corps optional, and we weren't in the Corps, but that was going to ruin the place, and they met women in, but the women deal started kind of slow.
You know, they say women can come, but they didn't even have facilities for them, they didn't have dorms or anything, so that really didn't kick in until later, but we thought if we suffered through it, that everybody else would have to suffer through the same kind of, and A&M was kind of considered a
like a marathon run, it's something you endure and once you finish, you have a great satisfaction of completing the race.
And it's not that way.
The students didn't relate to that today.
They come here and they do not want to leave.
It's a more wonderful experience than it was for us.
Now the camaraderie that we had, I think,
They have a hard time matching that, but... And in hindsight, what do you think those changes, if they had not happened?
Well, I think that I've watched my daughter come to A&M.
I've watched my daughter-in-law come to A&M.
And, you know, I still think we've lost some things because of those changes, but it's obvious it's made it a great thing.
world class university.
And the old Aggies that used to give me the most trouble about those changes, because when I first came back to work here in 72, that was still kind of fresh and a lot of the people that were in strong influential positions and able to give a lot of money were still upset about that until their granddaughters wanted to come.
I've enjoyed over the years a grandfather calling me that I remember saying, can you help my granddaughter get in?
And I said, boy, as times change, and he said, I'll admit, you know.
Let's see, your senior ring, do you remember when you...
Went over to order it and how you felt?
I remember getting it.
I don't remember exactly ordering it, but it was something that was very important.
How much did it cost?
Do you remember?
$37.50.
Where did you get that money?
Well, see, by then I was married.
Oh, okay.
And my wife, she made $280 a month teaching.
Hmm.
And I made 80-something on my scholarship and we lived off campus.
And we had a, I remember we was having a bank draft for $50 into our savings account, which I hadn't been able to do since.
But no, I remember being upset with her.
I had, my ring disappeared after that and I wanted a diamond in it.
I thought people put little diamonds in it.
I thought that was a thing to do.
And my ring disappeared.
I called the police.
I didn't have the money to go order another one then so I waited and then when the ring, at Christmas I got a big box and I opened it up and she had a diamond and I was mad at her because she didn't understand what that felt like, you know.
And so it was very important to me.
Why are Aggie rings so important?
Well, you know, it's kind of like talking about the Aggie spirit.
I think it's hard to do.
They've been basically unchanged for many years.
It's some way that you can really quickly look at somebody.
On an airplane, when I'd start visiting with somebody, it's just a habit of checking it out.
Even when I was in school driving, somebody would come up to me.
You know, you look for that ring.
And Aggies, almost without exception, wear the ring.
Have you had any places where you were somewhere on the other side of the world or run into some interesting person who spotted an Aggie ring?
Oh, often, yeah.
In Europe, traveling and, you know, places out of the way.
And, you know, when they say, well, I'm so-and-so class of 52 or 46 or something, it does create an immediate camaraderie or bond with them or you feel different about them immediately when you find that out.
I guess it's still the same for the young ones today.
I used to feel that way when I'd see a bumper sticker, though, you know, like going into Houston.
And now, going down there, there's so many of them.
They don't even bother to, say, gig them or wave at you.
But it used to be a deal where you'd almost pull over to the side of the road to visit with somebody if they had an Aggie sticker.
You've never lost your ring?
No.
I thought I have a couple times.
I've gotten some good stories.
I came back from speaking at a meeting.
I remember stopping at a Dairy Queen to eat.
and I remember throwing the trash in the dump on the way out and I got back and I realized they didn't have my ring and I,
I called back and offered a reward to the Dairy Queen.
I would drive back over there.
They had a kid to pay the kid to go through the dumpster.
I got home, was sick, and I never had to put it on.
And that didn't happen very often.
I hadn't told that story very much.
I'm kind of ashamed that I could go all day without knowing I had it on, but I did.
All right, now let's go back to this special young lady.
She was from Pampa.
From Pampa.
And you all did not date in high school.
No.
But then she goes to Baylor.
No, she went to Abilene Christian.
I mean, Abilene Christian.
And then you all get serious.
When does it, what year does it get serious?
Well, that would have been in 1966.
Your sophomore year, junior year?
It would be my junior year.
Junior year.
And, you know, I had to lay out a semester, and then the Olympics were coming up again, so I extended.
I took my last six hours, I held over to go.
I actually went five years because I laid out a semester in 64, and then I either had a choice, go to the Army,
and go to the Olympics so I think I stayed in school another semester to be sure I get to go to the Olympics.
And so she graduated in 66 and was going to Dallas to teach school or something.
She got her in education and that's when we decided well maybe we'll just go ahead and get married and come on down here and that's what we did.
All right, y'all got married, and she, does she start teaching that?
Start teaching.
First at A&M Solidarity?
No, at elementary school, Crockett.
In Bryan?
Crockett Elementary in Bryan.
All right.
And y'all lived where?
We lived on Dexter Street next to Dr. Barton Nelson, in a little house that is Dr. McDermott's library now.
He's converted, but it was a lot more like a boxcar than it was a house.
What was the rent?
Do you remember?
80, I think it was $85.
And so her teaching salary and you got a little bit of an allowance for living off campus.
What you got is equivalent to your scholarship if you lived on campus, which I think was about $80.
And you all managed to start saving?
Start saving money.
Now you've been frugal all your life.
When did you start making investments?
I started in 1969 when I left A&M.
I guess every paycheck after that.
I went to work as a stockbroker and that's got an interest in the market.
But I had a good teacher.
My dad did that a little bit even though he made very modest money in the oil fields in his own company stock.
And my older brother started in high school investing in the stock market.
And he worked in oil fields most of his life and has more money than a lot of executives have because he's invested in the market for all those years.
But I was conditioned to do it and never thought I was very smart at picking them, so I just better do it steady and every month.
Every time I got a raise, I would take another $10 or $15 or $25 a month and put it into the stock market.
All right.
Then you all got, became active in the NM Church of Christ.
Yes, sir.
And you all went to, did you all go morning and evening, Sunday morning, Sunday night?
We, most of the time, you know, all the,
through all the years of raising our children and being here, we'd go Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night.
It got harder when I, Wednesday got harder for me because of my work later on and kids' activities, but we've tried to do that.
And that church has been an important part of
Yes, one of the things that, not only friends, but that keeps us here.
It's been part of our lives for a long time.
It seems to me there's a kind of a consistency in faith and A&M ways of doing things.
Since you were not in the Corps, you didn't have senior boots.
but a senior ring, and what about commencement when you graduated?
Describe that, and who came, and what was it like?
Well, and I don't remember a lot about it.
I remember I wasn't going to miss it.
It was that important to me, and Mr. Zachary was the speaker, and it was short, but it was about taking risk, and, you know, we had a lot of Aggies
And I got to know them a little bit in my working years and boy, I was very blessed because of that.
The Polly Krueger's and the Pat Zachary's and Sterling Evans and some of those Aggies.
You go back for the history of the whole school and they're as important as anybody's ever been to this school.
And I'm fortunate I got to be around them a little bit.
And Mr. Rudder was the one who shook your hand.
Right.
What do you think about that man, Rudder?
Oh, I think he was one of the A&M heroes.
You know, for all he was able to accomplish
You know, it gave us a feeling of pride in our school when he was here.
You know, he was tough, and we took pride in that, and we knew he wouldn't put up with any monkey business with us, but he would, you know, would protect A&M, and I was very fortunate to get to know him, and one of the greatest thrills I ever had was
Well, you know, I told you he would call me, you know, and say, you know, I appreciate what you did for A&M, you know, when you had a good meet and little things like that.
But when I'm a, I'm in training to be a stockbroker down in Houston, and my boss is an Aggie, and I get a call, and I can't officially, I can't really take an order because I'm not registered, but he wants to buy, he's going on the board of a company, and he thinks he needs to buy some stock in it.
It was a substantial amount of stock.
And this is a national company.
And I got to go over to my boss and said, you know, I got this guy calling me.
And he said, well, who is it?
And I said, well, it's Earl Rudder.
Well, you know, I mean,
That turned out to be the biggest order I ever had.
And then later he sold it when he went off the board in less than a couple of years or something changed.
But I could call him after he bought that stock if anything ever happened in it.
I could call and they'd say, well, he's not in.
And I said, well, this is Randy Mason.
You're supposed to hold on.
And he's in Dallas and here's the number.
And I could call up there.
He was interested in that stock.
And I had an entree in the business.
General Rudder that not many people had because because they had his money invested down there and but you know he was You know, I just had a chance to be involved in A&M and what I think after the 200 year history is done is gonna be golden years some golden years, you know, and we didn't realize all that he was doing then we just knew what he you know the kind of man he was and
And I think he was a great role model for, you know, a lot of Aggies in there.
He even followed later.
What creates Aggie spirit?
Well, you know, that's a tough one to answer.
I don't think, I think everybody's got a little different answer to that.
I think Buck Wires was asked that a lot of times.
They asked him that when he was out at Texas Tech doing a consulting deal and it's about as good an answer as I heard and it was, well it's something that happens to you while you're there and I can't explain it to you because you wouldn't ever understand, you know.
And it's something that happens on the campus.
Now I've always wondered in my role as alumni director here for 20 years and working here for 27 or 8 years.
Do we attract a kind of person that is that way already, or is it something that happens to them here?
I think it's a little combination of that.
I think it's a combination of both of those.
I think that there's some people that could come here that wouldn't buy into that, but I think generally they don't come here.
They think that's not important to them.
I think those who come here want to be a part of that, and because of that they buy into it, but it's still something that happens to them
And it's in all areas of the university.
Some people get it in student organizations, some people get it in the core, some people get it in MSC programs, some people actually get it in academic, you know.
They come here for something special and I think that it's a little different to everyone but it's something that you get and that's why it's hard to explain to others and it's hard for them to understand it.
They cannot understand
why Aggies will do for their school what they will and how they feel about it.
We're very critical anymore of the school Aggies are, but they defend it right up to the end.
What did you learn at A&M that has been important to you in your life since then?
Well, A&M, for me, I was always kind of shy, and I think that you're expected to step up, introduce yourself,
you're expected to participate in the classroom and you know in athletics.
I think it helped me being an Aggie that we were kind of quote persecuted by others and you had to you know stand up for the school and it was a big help to me that way.
And the camaraderie, I think, is something that I've enjoyed.
When you run into somebody, you know, I'm in Houston last week and run into a veterinarian that didn't even start here until Class 79.
But we understand certain things differently than we would if we, you know, both weren't Aggies.
If you were a consultant to the Texas A&M leadership of today, what kind of advice would you give them?
Well, you know, I would tell them that change is inevitable, but they need to really look at the things of the past and see that there's some things that we need to try to keep at A&M.
And I know that's hard to do.
It's hard to do at the association.
I look at, I didn't feel like we changed all that much in the 20 years I was there, but I look at the beginning and the end and it changed a great deal.
But we never changed just to change.
And we didn't necessarily have to be just like other people.
And I think A&M is not for everyone.
I think for some students maybe it's not the best place.
Some faculty members it may not be the best place.
bring them in with the expectation that we're going to make it like any other place for everybody, the place for everybody.
And I think that's what I would say.
If you could make a major gift to A&M, I usually phrase it, if somebody walked up to you and had you a check for a million dollars, but it has to be passed on to A&M, you decide how it will be spent.
If you were making a major gift to A&M, for what purpose would you want it used?
You know, that's a tough one because
Over the years I've run into a lot of areas that I think are good and I probably though would try to get it to the students some way and I think I've developed a real affinity toward the students that come here under difficult circumstances, financial ones that
and a great sacrifice and I run into them from time to time that are really working hard to get through.
Our students today are more, a lot more affluent than they were at the time I was here.
Everybody was in kind of the same boat but there's, it's not that way today.
But there's a lot of them because of the cost and this would, this been not just on need but not just on academics either.
I mean, you know, I don't know that,
One of the great programs at A&M is the Endowed Scholarship Program, the Presidential Endowed Scholarship, and I've seen the great things that's done for our school.
But I'd probably be inclined to go toward more Opportunity Award-type scholarships that a lot of Aggies